---
title: I Believe


date: 2011-12-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1077
categories:
- General

---
I was recently given a bit of an existential challenge that has been perhaps harder to respond to then maybe it should: I was asked what I believe. It is not the first time that I've been asked the question though I think it is probably the first time that I've actually given as much effort as I have to sorting out the answer.



I started my life as a believer. More probably described as a True Believer. As the son of a relatively conservative Lutheran pastor I had been raised to think of my family's life as a public display for the teachings that he endorsed. I took my conservative Christianity seriously and tried to live my life in ways that made sense with those rules. I'd like to think I was pretty good at it. As with many people it wasn't until high school that some of the cracks in the set of beliefs that I had been handed started to show. Still for awhile it was easy to paper them over with the usual sorts of statements along the lines of "We cannot know the mind of God." or similar. If things didn't quite make sense, that was fine since they didn't have to. However at some point that turned out to not quite be enough.



There were two things in particular in my life that didn't make sense in the context of my upbringing. The first was my developing sexuality and the second was exposure to the wider world outside the carefully constructed Christian community that I had been brought up in. In both cases I was left with a fundamental question of "Why?"



I had finally gotten to a point where I was starting to write down a list of items that seemed to pretty much fit what I believed, but I was having trouble describing the concepts precisely enough. I would finish a draft on a particular point and after re-reading it would find some aspect that could be quibbled with. Maybe it wasn't quite true. Maybe it wasn't quite accurate enough. After many such drafts along that line on every single item I think I may have figured out what it is that I really believe and can relegate most of those other overly massaged statements as some sort of principles.



If there is one thing that has been consistent as long as I can remember it is that I believe that everything should be questioned.



Questions have served me well. There have been plenty of times where they have certainly made my life more difficult, or at least more complex, but in the long term I can not think of a time when asking questions has not turned out to be the right thing to do. It has taken me from being a rote follower to someone who at least tries to think first and tries to identify my own assumptions.



It is a belief that does have at least one pitfall though and that is in over thinking. I struggle with making decisions because I spend too much time trying to figure out if one way might be better then the other(s). It can make nearly any argument turn into a "slippery slope" where a simple answer is required.

